[ Music ]
>> John Newman: Hey everyone.
My name is John Newman.
I'm an assistant technology specialist
here at PACER Simon Technology Center.
And I'll be telling you a little bit more
kind of about myself and the work I do
and also offer a little bit of advice.
So I think what's interesting is I became
aware of my disability not too young,
but definitely probably around
like third or fourth grade.
I just had trouble kind of sitting still or
paying attention when other people could.
And I also really noticed that writing
in general was really hard for me.
So that's kind of when I
really started to notice it.
But I didn't really feel that
different when I was young.
What's interesting too is
I feel like when you look
at your disability there's
both strengths and weaknesses.
And one thing for me was when you have an
attention difficulty, school is an environment
where it really demands you
to be paying attention a lot.
And when you have a disability, a lot of
times you're thinking of other things,
other things that are much
more interesting to you.
So it was really hard for me to
really stay motivated about things
that didn't capture my attention.
Because if it doesn't capture my attention or
some of my passion, it's really hard for me
to devote a lot of my time and energy to it.
So that kind of made school a struggle, because
there was always a balance between focusing
and being motivated on something that
didn't necessarily kind of captivate me.
So that's a skill that I had to develop was,
you know, just because I'm not interested
in this doesn't mean I shouldn't
work hard for it.
I think what was cool with my parents was they
actually helped me understand my disability
at a scientific level.
Sometimes when you act different than other
people, that can make you feel really strange.
And what my parents just let me know is that
it was just a difference in my brain chemistry.
It didn't make me a bad person
or an unintelligent person,
it just made me act a little bit differently.
And as soon as I started
to learn more about that,
I was able to accept myself a little bit more.
So that really helped.
I think high expectations is interesting for
both the parent, and then also as an individual.
Sometimes if you're not succeeding in school,
it's really easy for your
expectations to change for yourself.
And I think the role of a parent is
to really help you keep those us.
So sometimes a parent can really help
someone see a future for yourself
that you currently can't see
because you're really struggling.
So my parents I think always really
helped me keep my eye on the ball.
And something that was really important that
they told me is that school is the only time
in your life where you have
to be good at everything.
You have to be good at math.
You have to be good at writing.
You have to be good at sports.
And it's really not like that in the real world.
The real world is where you
find hey what am I good at?
What motivates me?
And how can I bring that to a job,
to a hobby, and that's something
that they really helped me keep in mind.
And that was a big motivator going forward.
So I was fortunate enough to go to college,
and college, kind of like I was saying earlier,
is where you really get to
explore what interests you.
And in college I became fascinated
with technology
and how people interact with technology.
So when I graduated I still had that passion
of looking at technology, how people interact
with it, how technology benefits people.
And I saw this job as a really cool opportunity
to give back, learn a lot about people,
how they interact with technology,
and I'm having a lot of fun
and kind of growing each day with it.
So that's kind of something that really
motivated me to get into this field.
I think the big thing you've got to
look at is what are your strengths.
That's something that every
successful person, you know,
quotes disability or not, has to ask themselves.
So if you're in high school, I think it's
your job to really think about you know,
when I wake up every day, what
do I want to bring to this world?
And that's where you look at your strengths.
So when you wake up, is it your creativity?
Is it the way you interact with people?
Is it kind of some of your science smarts?
Really discover what it is that excites and
that you feel really positive and good about
and kind of push and pursue that thing.
Because a lot of people in life can, you
know, just take any job or do anything.
But I think the people that are really
successful and happy find things
that really connects with them
and really motivates them.
So even at high school you
can start to think about that.
Because that's going to really help
predict those next steps in your life.
[ Music ]